URL	Title	Content
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cp68pxpr656o	Harry Potter proof bought for £1 raises £29k for Witney village	"An original proof of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, which was bought for  an Oxfordshire village school for £1, has sold in the US for $37,500 (£29,000).
The 1997 uncorrected proof, one of only 200 ever printed by publisher Bloomsbury, misspells the author's name as ""J. A Rowling"".
It had been lost by St Kenelm's Primary School in Minster Lovell, Witney, for about 10 years before it was rediscovered in a cupboard during a summer holiday tidy up in 2023 and sold to local businessman Dale Henry for £15,000.
He had planned to donate it to a local museum but instead sent it to auction in the US to provide money for the village.
The proof had been bought in a local bookshop sale in 1997 for £1 and given to the school.
It was initially read by pupils but when the series became popular the school took it off its shelves for safe keeping.
Mr Henry said a local museum was unable to accommodate such a valuable item so he decided to auction it off.
It sold in Dallas, Texas, for $37,500, including a buyer's premium.
Speaking before the sale, Mr Henry said he hoped the revenue would ""help reinvigorate our community"".
""Learning about this book's journey and its connection to our area was fascinating, especially since my wife is a Harry Potter superfan,"" he added.
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk. "
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c51y37yez2mo	Harry Potter: Publisher inspired by working with Roald Dahl 	"The publisher who discovered Harry Potter has said working with Cardiff-born children's author Roald Dahl helped him see the potential in JK Rowling's novel.
Barry Cunningham has worked with some of the most well-known children's authors in the world.
He said Roald Dahl was ""a tall, quite grumpy, rather heroic, very frank author"" who was adored by children.
""He was occasionally extremely grumpy and short tempered with adults, but never with children,"" he told the Books That Made Me programme on BBC Radio Wales.
Roald Dahl was born on 13 September 1916 in the Llandaff area of the Welsh capital, and died on 23 November 1990, aged 74.
As marketing director for Puffin, Mr Cunningham travelled around the country with him.
It was during one of those marketing trips that Dahl revealed what he believed was the secret to the success of his books.
Mr Cunningham said: ""I remember a long drive, which was very difficult because he had hurt his back in the war.
""I said to him, as you do when you're very young, 'Mr Dahl, what is the secret of your popularity with children?'
""I just blushed to hear myself say that, and he took it seriously. He said 'the thing you've got to remember Barry, is that humour is delayed fear, laughter is delayed fear.'
""And really, I didn't understand that at the time, but if you look at the way he uses humour and the way that children use humour, perhaps sometimes it's the only weapon they have against terrifying circumstances or people. That's very indicative of his stories and the style of those stories.""
Later, working for Bloomsbury, the first Harry Potter book came across his desk, and he believes his experiences with Dahl helped him see its potential when many other publishers had not.
""I think it was because I didn't come from a traditional background. I'd come from marketing and promotion. I'd seen how children relate to books, so I perhaps wasn't looking for those kinds of books that tried to teach them lessons, or tried  to be good for them.""
Barry said he still remembered what struck him when reading Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone for the first time.
""I read it overnight and I suppose the beginning did slightly remind me of Roald Dahl, Harry and his cupboard. But the other thing was the bond between the children and the friendship and very, very importantly - and, again, unusual for any kind of fantasy at that time - was the humour,"" he said.
""I wouldn't pretend to you I predicted at that time though that Harry would take over the world, and then have all those adult readers, [that] it would be so important to multi generations. I didn't predict that.""
JK Rowling has previously said if it was not for Barry Cunningham, Harry Potter ""might still be languishing in his cupboard under the stairs"".
""I doubt any of the writers with whom he's worked, could be more grateful to him,"" she added.
Mr Cunningham said he was very touched by her praise.
""It is lovely. I just loved it from the beginning, but of course I didn't know that every other publisher in the world had already turned it down. So it was lucky that she found me and I was lucky that I found her. I mean, that's extraordinary, isn't it?""
In 2000, Mr Cunningham started his own ""lively and creative"" publishing company, Chicken House, which has a special emphasis on original children's fiction books.
He remains passionate about discovering new writing talent, but said he would never tire of being known as the man who brought Harry Potter to the world.
Barry Cunningham's interview on Books That Made Me with Lucy Owen was first broadcast on BBC Radio Wales on Friday at 18.30 BST and is available on BBC Sounds."
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c4ng9rzg0x9o	Former Harry Potter stuntman loses money in banking scam	"A former stuntman who became paralysed on a Harry Potter film set said he felt ""shame, regret and a whole lot of pain"" after falling victim to a telephone scam.
David Holmes, from Leigh-on-Sea, Essex, said ""a lot of money"" had been stolen from his bank account.
The 41-year-old had been called by a person purporting to be from NatWest who had all of his personal details.
A NatWest Group spokesperson said: “The safety and security of our customers is our top priority."" 
In a post on Instagram, Mr Holmes said it was ""so easy to fall victim to these criminals"".
Mr Holmes suffered a spinal injury during filming for Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 in January 2009.
Daniel Radcliffe later produced a HBO documentary about Mr Holmes, who was his stunt double, that was released in November 2023.
Mr Holmes said he had been under ""unbelievable amounts of pressure"" since the production came out.
""I've just been hit and hit and hit - and [last week] I got the hardest hit of them all,"" he said.
Mr Holmes explained the scammer was ""very sophisticated"" and had a convincing amount of information to give the impression they were legitimate.
""I duly followed all of his instructions, turns out he was a scammer,"" he said.
The former stuntman said despite his ""heavy heart"", he wanted to create a ""positive"" scenario by raising awareness of the scam.
He said he had been contacted by someone pretending to be from a fraud prevention team at NatWest.
The money that had been taken was ""unrecoverable"", Mr Holmes added.
In a statement, the NatWest spokesperson said it ""continually"" assessed advancements in the ways scammers operated.
""It’s important to pause before making any payments at the request of others which might appear unusual,"" they added.
Follow Essex news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830"
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cl4y0586j8lo	Bridgnorth holds events for Harry Potter's birthday	"Free events are being held in a town to celebrate the birthday of one of literature's most well-known wizards.
A Wizard's Birthday in Bridgnorth saw dozens of activities and workshops held for the public to celebrate Harry Potter's birthday.
Run by folk music event company Shire Folk, the aim was to create an affordable day of events for families.
""There aren’t that many opportunities for people to go out with their families and have a day out without it costing them a huge amount of money,"" said Jennifer Bone from Shire Folk.
""In summer that can be really hard for a lot of families, so this was very much just actually trying to respond to that, and give people a really fun day out where it’s not going to cost them a huge amount,"" she added.
Harry Potter is the titular character of author JK Rowling's seven book series, which sees a young boy attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, after discovering he is a wizard.
The series saw massive success, and subsequently spawned one of the highest-grossing media franchises of all time.
Activities across the town included wand lessons, magic shows, and craft sessions.
There were also various animals around the town that featured in the series, including owls and tarantulas.
""It’s been a labour of love, but it’s just so great to see a community pull together,"" said Westley Bone, also from Shire Folk.
""It was just a small seed of an idea, everybody kind of went 'that sounds like fun, can we be involved?' and it’s just turned into this community, town-wide celebration and party.""
Follow BBC Shropshire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk"
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c728l50j700o	Artwork now most valuable Harry Potter item ever sold	"An original watercolour illustration has become the most valuable Harry Potter item ever sold - fetching $1.9m (£1.5m) at auction in the US.
The artwork for the first edition of JK Rowling's Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone sold for more than three times the expected price.
It was first auctioned in 2001, before the book series was complete, for £85,750 (about $108,000 at current exchange rates).
""This is really the first visualization of Harry and the wizarding world,"" said Kalika Sands from Sotheby's auction house. 
The artwork had been expected to sell for between $400,000 and $600,000, which Sotheby's said was the highest pre-sale estimate for a Harry Potter-related work. 
It took nearly 10 minutes for the four-way bidding to finish on Wednesday. The identity of the buyer was not revealed. 
The artist behind the illustration, Thomas Taylor, was only 23 years old in 1997 when he created the iconic image of Harry Potter standing in front of the Hogwarts Express - the train that would lead the young bespectacled wizard into the magical world. 
It was done using concentrated watercolours with black pencil outlines and took him two days to finish.
Mr Taylor, who grew up in Wales, was one of the first people to read the manuscript for the original Harry Potter book, which went on to sell millions of copies and spawned a lucrative franchise including movies and theme parks. 
He wrote on his website that he was working at a children's book shop in Cambridge in 1996 when he was inspired to send examples of his artwork to publishers, including Bloomsbury who went on to give him the Potter job.
Ms Sands said the difference in auction price between 2001, when only four of the seven books in the series were published, and now reflected just how popular author Rowling's creation had become. 
""In the intervening decades, it's been extraordinary to see just the conclusion of Harry's story, but also how the Harry Potter franchise has taken off, and in that time, new generations have come to appreciate Harry and his journey as well."""
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cm55x9p7nv1o	Prince William jokes about 'Harry Potter' scar on Cardiff visit	"The Prince of Wales has joked about his ""Harry Potter"" scar during a visit to Cardiff.
William mentioned the childhood accident which left him with a head wound as he met with businesses and organisations which utilise the benefits of seaweed for their products.
Gathering at Cardiff Metropolitan University he told the assembled entrepreneurs how he got the injury being whacked with a golf club as a boy.
Pointing to a mark above his left eye William also said he has never played the sport since.
He discussed investment in what was described as the super-power of seaweed by Derek Walker, the future generations commissioner - a role created by the Welsh government  to help public bodies change behaviour and ""improve social, economic, environmental and cultural well-being"".
The prince also chatted to Pierre Paslier, co-founder and co-chief executive officer of Notpla, a former category winner in William's Earthshot environmental prize, which supplies seaweed packaging to major UK sport and music venues.
Picking up a biodegradable golf tee made from marine algae, William was then asked if he likes to tee off, to which he replied: ""No, (this happened) the last time I played golf.""
He then pointed to the painful reminder of the moment in 1991 when, aged eight, he was accidentally struck with a friend's club, during the time he was at boarding school in Berkshire.
It saw him taken to the Royal Berkshire Hospital in Reading for treatment and left him with a scar not unlike the title character of JK Rowling's bestselling boy wizard books."
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c4nnzg47mkyo	A spell at Dogwarts for Harry Potter Tour guide dogs	"The studio that is home to the Harry Potter tour has partnered with a charity to improve accessibility for people with visual impairments.
The Warner Bros Studio Tour in Leavesden, Hertfordshire, has sponsored three guide dogs in training named after JK Rowling's characters Harry, Ron and Hermione.
The charity Guide Dogs will use the funds to cover training, food and veterinary expenses.
New initiatives will be introduced to the tour over the next 12 months to help staff and visitors, including iPads that can be used to magnify signs and descriptions.
The Warner Bros Studio Tour has welcomed guide dogs into the venue since it first opened in March 2012.
Visitors can explore sets from the Harry Potter film franchise such as the Great Hall,  Gringotts Wizarding Bank and the Forbidden Forest.
The charity, Guide Dogs, will also provide staff at the tour with training resources about helping visitors with visual impairments.
They will also be taught how to safely guide a person with sight loss around the site. 
Kerry Kernan, head of children, young people and families at Guide Dogs, said: ""Through our consultation, advice and training, we hope to encourage change across the UK attractions industry to become more accessible for people with sight loss.""
Follow Beds, Herts and Bucks news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830"
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c9ez7720l9yo	Harry Potter: Neath fanatic named Britain's biggest collector	"A Harry Potter super fan with more than 9,000 items in a collection worth £250,000 has been labelled Britain’s biggest collector.
Victoria Maclean, 44, from Neath, has continued to grow her collection over the past 20 years. 
She bought her first piece after reading The Philosopher's Stone and owns an item worth about £35,000.
She even named her youngest son Harry - and said her collection was in ""almost every single part of the house"".
Ms Maclean said: ""My mum was a big Harry Potter collector. 
""When she passed away nine years ago, my collection became more of an obsession and it basically took over my life.""
She was awarded Britain's Biggest Collection by Airtasker, a local services marketplace, in February 2024.
She said: ""Harry Potter is something that is obviously fiction, you can’t visit Hogwarts so I wanted to bring Hogwarts to me.""
Victoria’s home is full of robes, hats, wands and numerous other pieces, which she said were displayed all around the house.
She added: ""The only place my collection isn’t seen is in my children’s rooms. 
""Their rooms are Harry Potter-free apart from a few items in my youngest son’s room, who's named after Harry.
""But it’s everywhere else. It’s in almost every single part of the house. 
""It’s in boxes, cupboards, wardrobes, drawers, trunks, in the attic, under the bed.
""At work I have a uniform so I put on my Harry Potter socks underneath because no-one can see it.”
Victoria runs a YouTube channel with more than 27,000 followers where she shares her love for the franchise.
Her favourite item in her collection is a cabinet containing a handmade 24-carat golf leaf miniature replica of Dumbledore’s office, worth an estimated £35,000.
She said: ""I am passionate about my Harry Potter Collection which brings joy not only to myself and my family, but also to the community. 
""Being one of the biggest collectors globally, I’m thrilled to fly the flag for the UK, where the wizarding world originated."""
https://www.bbc.com/news/entertainment-arts-68787258	JK Rowling reignites row with Harry Potter stars Daniel Radcliffe and Emma Watson	"Author JK Rowling has reignited a row with Harry Potter stars Emma Watson and Daniel Radcliffe over the issue of transgender identity and rights.
The writer hit out at ""celebs"" who she said had ""used their platforms to cheer on the transitioning of minors"".
Radcliffe and Watson are among the film's cast members who spoke out against Rowling's stance on gender identity in 2020.
The BBC has asked Radcliffe and Watson for responses to her latest comments. 
Rowling has also welcomed a review that raised concerns about gender identity services for under-18s.
On Wednesday, the Cass Review said children had been let down by ""remarkably weak"" evidence on medical intervention in gender care.
Rowling described the report as ""a watershed moment"".
One social media user replied to her: ""Just waiting for Dan and Emma to give you a very public apology... safe in the knowledge that you will forgive them...""
The Harry Potter author responded: ""Not safe, I'm afraid.
""Celebs who cosied up to a movement intent on eroding women's hard-won rights and who used their platforms to cheer on the transitioning of minors can save their apologies for traumatised detransitioners and vulnerable women reliant on single sex spaces.""
Rowling has been accused of being transphobic for her views on gender identity and for saying trans women shouldn't be allowed into female-only spaces. 
She also recently challenged police in Scotland, where she lives, to arrest her under a new hate crime law after she described several trans women as men. Police Scotland decided not to take any action.
The writer has attracted both criticism and support for her position, and has dismissed backlash over her opinions.
She has denied being transphobic, previously saying she respects ""every trans person's right to live any way that feels authentic and comfortable to them"" and that she wants trans people to be free from discrimination and abuse.
Radcliffe, who played the young wizard in the Harry Potter films, responded to Rowling's original posts in 2020 by saying: ""It's clear that we need to do more to support transgender and nonbinary people, not invalidate their identities.""
He added that he hoped the author's comments would not ""taint"" the movie series for fans.
Watson said: ""Trans people are who they say they are and deserve to live their lives without being constantly questioned or told they aren't who they say they are.""
Eddie Redmayne, star of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, based on Rowling's book, also said in 2020: ""I disagree with Jo's comments. Trans women are women, trans men are men and non-binary identities are valid.""
Meanwhile Rupert Grint said: ""I firmly stand with the trans community... Trans women are women. Trans men are men. We should all be entitled to live with love and without judgment.""
Ralph Fiennes, who played Potter villain Lord Voldemort, came to the author's defence, calling the abuse she received ""disgusting"" and ""appalling"".
Other stars including Eddie Izzard and Helena Bonham Carter, who played Bellatrix Lestrange, have also said they do not consider Rowling's views to be transphobic, but reflective of her own experience of abuse.
Rowling said she spoke out about transgender issues in part due to her personal experience of domestic abuse and sexual assault."
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/ckrx5xgn7n8o	Harry Potter viaduct at Glenfinnan in line for £3.4m of repairs	"A 123-year-old railway viaduct famous for its use as a Harry Potter film location is to have £3.4m-worth of repairs done to it.
Network Rail said the work would start on the Glenfinnan Viaduct in Lochaber this month.
The repairs include improvements to the structure's protection against water erosion and also the stone ballast beneath the track.
The viaduct, along with the Jacobite steam train, appeared in 2002's Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.
Network Rail said there would be no disruption to ScotRail services along the West Highland Line during the work.
The Jacobite steam train journeys were suspended last month in a wrangle over safety regulations.
Network Rail said the repairs would not not change the appearance of the structure –  which is the longest concrete viaduct in Scotland.
Engineers from Network Rail and principal contractor AmcoGiffen will also assess the condition of the crossing while carrying out the improvements.
Project manager Laura Craig said: ""The viaduct is an iconic landmark which attracts visitors from across the world, so we’ve worked hard to develop a solution which will help preserve the structure, respect its historic significance while minimising the visual impact of our work.""
Network Rail said it was working with the local landowner, Highland Council, to make sure work was carried out as sensitively as possible. 
The company said this included using carefully selected stone for the repairs that match the existing masonry.
Highland Council's economy and infrastructure chairman Ken Gowans said: “The scenic rail journey has become a hugely popular route between Fort William and Mallaig. 
""It is very popular with Harry Potter fans and attracts visitors from across the world. 
""In addition, it also provides a valued service to those living and working in the communities it passes through, so it is essential that repair works and works to safeguard the route's future are carried out.”
Network Rail said residents and businesses near Glenfinnan would receive letters outlining the planned work programme and would also be kept informed of progress. 
Community drop-ins are also being planned."
https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-england-suffolk-68659343	Harry Potter 120-hour readathon to raise money for Bungay theatre	"All seven Harry Potter books will be read aloud, over the course of 120 hours, to raise funds for a theatre. 
Terry Reeve, from Bungay, Suffolk, came up with the event to raise £10,000 for the town's historic Fisher Theatre.
He hoped 100 people would take turns to read the magical series across four weeks in October.
Mr Reeve said: ""I wanted to use them, particularly because some of the early editions were printed in Bungay at Clays.""
The use of the Harry Potter books at the readathon was given approval by The Blair Partnership (TBP) - which represents author J. K. Rowling.
Mr Reeve continued: ""What I'm aiming to do is find 100 people who would be able to each raise £100 in sponsorship to take part in the big read, which would obviously take place at the theatre.
""There's going to be quite a logistical challenge to draw up the rota of readers because we don't really want anyone to read for more than half an hour - that's quite a lot if you're reading out loud.""
The community performance would take place over 120 hours.
""We really want to do Harry Potter because it's a lovely series of books and everyone's heard of it,"" said Mr Reeve.
He also hoped primary and secondary schools would get involved, with ""more affluent"" readers taking part. 
Clara Nelson of TBP said: ""We are so happy for Terry to have permission to do the readathon... and so pleased that anyone can pop in and hear the reading of Harry Potter.""
The theatre was built in 1828 and was one of thirteen developed in East Anglia by David Fisher. 
As of 2006, it is run as a not-for-profit charity and running costs are funded solely by income generated through creative arts activities. 
""Like all small provincial theatres, it struggles to make ends meet financially,"" said Mr Reeve.
""I don't want suggest it's going to close or anything like that, but I wanted to help them.""
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830"
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cz7z6xnpyn6o	Harry Potter Jacobite steam train service suspended	"A steam train that appeared in the Harry Potter films has been suspended in a wrangle over safety regulation.
West Coast Railways (WCR) has been challenging demands for central locking systems to be fitted to carriage doors on its Jacobite service.
WCR said it had suspended the service while it sought an exemption to the rules from rail regulator the Office of Rail and Road (ORR).
The Jacobite and its crossing of the Glenfinnan Viaduct, near Fort William, featured in 2002's Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.

The service runs between Mallaig and Fort William from March to October.
Its crossing of the Glenfinnan Viaduct is popular with fans of JK Rowling's stories of a young wizard.
WCR received its most recent temporary exemption in November last year.
The company said it was awaiting a decision on a new application and had suspended the Jacobite service until further notice.
It said passengers booked on the train would be offered a full refund.
Commercial manager James Shuttleworth said: “We are disappointed to have to suspend this service and we are sorry for the inconvenience caused to our customers who have booked trips.""
An ORR spokesperson said they warned all heritage operators ""several years ago"" that their trains had to either seek an exemption or be compliant with the rules after 31 March.
""West Coast Railway's application for an exemption failed and they made a claim for judicial review. A temporary exemption was granted in order to maintain the status quo, enabling WCR to operate whilst the litigation reached a conclusion,"" they said.
“Despite this, WCR chose to sell tickets when it was far from certain that a new application for an exemption would be granted, either in time for the commencement of services or at all. 
""It submitted an exemption application on 8 March, which we are now assessing. ORR is disappointed that WCR appears not to have made sensible contingency plans for the benefit of their customers.”"
https://www.bbc.com/news/entertainment-arts-68552815	Harry Potter: Is Miriam Margolyes right that adult fans should 'grow up'?	"I visited Platform 9 ¾ at Kings Cross station as a child. Obsessed with Harry Potter, I was convinced that if I ran through the wall I would find myself arm in arm with Ron and Hermione boarding the Hogwarts Express on my way to becoming a fully fledged witch.
Sure, I would have to leave my Muggle parents behind, but aged 10 that was a sacrifice I was prepared to make. 
However, my attempt at running into a brick wall left me with little more than a bruised head, and the magic had, quite literally, been knocked out of me. 
While this abruptly brought my dream of going to Hogwarts to an end, for some Harry Potter fans the fantasy lives on into adulthood. 
It is no wonder then that fans have been sent into a frenzied meltdown on social media after Miriam Margolyes, who played Professor Pomona Sprout in the film series, told adult fans to ""grow up"" and get ""over it"".
In two recent interviews in New Zealand and Australia, the 82-year-old actress said she worries about adult Potter fans as ""they should be over that by now"".
""It was 25 years ago, and I think it's for children,"" Margolyes told New Zealand broadcaster TZNZ. 
""I do Cameos [personalised video messages] and people say they are doing a Harry Potter-themed wedding, and I think, 'Oh gosh what is their first night of fun going to be?'""
The actress, who recently posed naked behind a stack of iced buns for a Vogue photoshoot, later told ABC News Australia that once teens are through puberty, ""it's time to forget about it and go on to other things"".
So, should adults set aside their wands, leave behind the wizarding world and accept that ""it's for children"", as Margolyes says?
For many millennials, Harry Potter is part of their identity. The books, written by JK Rowling, were released between 1997 and 2007, and the eight films between 2001 and 2011.
Most of us might occasionally re-watch the films on a Sunday afternoon and would do relatively well in a round of Harry Potter trivia, but for some people their interest extends far beyond this. 
Jennifer Peiro and Hector Garcia are two content creators in their early 30s who run dedicated Harry Potter accounts on Instagram. 
Peiro, whose account has over 120,000 followers, says that as an adult it is difficult to make friends, but her account helped her ""connect with like-minded people"". For Garcia, creating Hogwarts content ""has been one of the most rewarding and healing parts of my adult life"".
Both say the wizarding world provides a form of escapism and community for them.
""I regularly get comments from people all over the world saying how the story has saved them during dark times, how it's their safe space and comfort,"" Peiro explains.
Garcia adds his account ""has evolved into something I can use to forget about life in a healthy and therapeutic way"".
It is hard to blame these fans for wanting to swap the mundanity of everyday life for a world where potion classes and Quidditch matches reign supreme.
One Potterhead who is part of the fandom is Rachel Parker, a 32-year-old wedding planner who specialises in ""nerdy themed"" ceremonies.
As an adult, she has become heavily involved in the online community, which she says is the most enduring legacy of Harry Potter.
From online forums and fan fiction sites to real-life meet-ups and book clubs, the community ""have almost overtaken the books themselves and created so much more"", Parker explains.
Of course, Harry Potter is not the only fantasy world that some adults, like Rachel, are obsessed with. You will likely find people of all ages visiting Disney theme parks for the hundredth time or re-enacting Lord of the Rings battle scenes in their spare time.
In fact, the number of people attending Comicon, an annual comic convention where people dress up as fictional characters, has risen dramatically - there are now over 150,000 attendees every year.
Even more impressive is that Warner Bros Studio Tour London, where a number of the films were produced, has welcomed over 16 million visitors since it opened in 2012.
So how have these diehard fans reacted to Margolyes telling them to pack away the robes and broomsticks in favour of more adult interests? 
Maddi Harwood, 32, who runs an Instagram account dedicated to fantasy genre books , said she is ""used to bullies making fun of me for loving Harry Potter"".
""The worst kind of bully is someone who makes fun of another person for something they absolutely love and adore,"" she adds.
""It's unnecessary to shame people for enjoying something especially when she profits from Harry Potter,"" explains Peiro.
Critics and commentators have expressed mixed views about Margolyes's comments. 
City AM's film critic Victoria Luxford told the BBC: ""This isn't a conversation we have about music or sport, you don't grow up and stop supporting a football team or listening to your favourite artist so why should it be any different for films?""
She said Margolyes made the remark because she ""didn't understand"". 
""It's a generational thing,"" Victoria suggests. ""The idea of holding on to things from your childhood that you enjoy is a relatively recent thing"".
Film critic Siobhan Synnot called Margolyes's comments ""snobbish"", adding: ""Classic children's films may speak to adults too, it's about ambition, sophistication and quality, not age range"".
However, Lindsey Fraser who was one of the first book critics to write a review of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone in 1997 for The Scotsman said: ""The books are definitely children's books.
""But it was a clever move by Bloomsbury to publish 'adult' editions - the only difference being the jacket design.""
It is not just some critics that agree with Margolyes, but some adults who loved Harry Potter as a child also think it's time people got over it.
""It's cute if you're a parent enjoying it with your children or watch it occasionally as a guilty pleasure, but the full-on fandom stuff is a mega red flag,"" 26-year-old Ellie Piggott told the BBC.
Beyond escapism and comfort, some fans argue that the books are actually more catered towards adults. 
""There are lots of real world issues behind all the magic that you wouldn't normally think of directing at children - themes like the true cost of war, depression, racism, sacrifice and corruption in government,"" says 34-year-old Kelly Komar, who is an avid Harry Potter collector.
Ioannis Karellis goes one step further. ""At a high level, the story is about an evil racist tyrant and his band of followers who regularly torture and murder opposition and take political power by force to enforce their own world view on people - clearly this is not really a child's story.""
The 26-year-old who re-reads the books regularly said he recently discovered a new interpretation. 
""The ministry's denial of Voldemort's existence until it was absolutely irrefutable because of the fear of what that would mean draws parallels to how governments responded to Covid-19.""
It certainly seems that adults remain very interested in the franchise.
In 2018, Mastermind asked applicants to change their specialist topics after the quiz show received 262 applications to answer questions about Harry Potter. 
Matthew Cortland, who founded a chain of bars that offer immersive wizardry and magic experiences, says people are ""fascinated by fantasy because it provides an alternate reality for people to exist in"".
""Everyone wants to find a place they belong and when society rejects you, you seek comfort elsewhere,"" he adds.
It was Dumbledore who once said ""happiness can be found, even in the darkest of times, if one only remembers to turn on the light"".
For many adults, no matter what Margolyes says, that light comes in the form of Harry Potter."
https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-england-london-68402216	Harry Potter first edition book sells for £11k at auction	"A first-edition Harry Potter novel that was bought for 13p almost 30 years ago has sold at auction for £11,000.
The uncorrected proof copy of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone was bought in 1997 from a second-hand shop with two other books for 40p.
Harry Potter books expert Jim Spencer said: ""This book so deserved to do well. This is where the Harry Potter phenomenon began.
""This is the very first appearance in print of the first Potter novel.""
The seller, who remains anonymous, bought the volume when she was 26 and lived in Crystal Palace.
It was sold by Hansons auctioneers to a UK buyer.
She said: ""I didn't have much money but I always liked to treat myself to a browse round second-hand bookshops on Saturday mornings.
""I dropped into one of my usual haunts, one of the second-hand bookshops just off the main road in Crystal Palace, looking for some Agatha Christies. Piles of books were all jumbled up in baskets on the floor with a maximum price of 40p.
""The Harry Potter book was among the piles - maybe even by accident - as all the rest were Agatha Christie, Dorothy Sayers, Ngaio Marsh etc, as far as I remember. I bought it as a throw-in with a couple of other titles - 40p for all three. I don't think I even looked at it properly to tell the truth.""
Tales Of Beedle the Bard: Sold to Amazon in 2007 for £1.9m
A children's book featured in the last instalment of the Harry Potter series, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. Individually handwritten and illustrated by J.K Rowling, the book is one of only seven copies.
Harry Potter and The Philosopher's Stone: Sold to an unknown buyer in Texas for £356,629
It was a rare, immaculate condition first edition of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. This was the highest sum ever paid for a work of fiction published in the 20th Century.
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone: Sold for £173,905 in 2013.
The copy had been annotated by JK Rowling and included original drawings and notes about Quidditch.
Mr Spencer said the title page mistakenly stated the author's name as ""JA Rowling"" rather than ""JK Rowling"", and then on the other side as ""Joanne Rowling"".
The seller said she was scrolling the internet one night and found a news story about the prices some Harry Potter books were selling for.
She contacted Mr Spencer to see whether her book was valuable, and admitted that ""finding it when I did was just a massive piece of well-timed luck for which I will always be grateful and more than a tad surprised"".
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk"
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/crg9gr57ex2o	Harry Potter: Philosopher's Stone first edition sold for £7,500	"A first edition of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, which was donated to a charity shop, has sold for £7,500 at auction.
The book was anonymously donated to an RSPCA shop in the Isle of Wight and will now help fund the branch as well as the animals in their care.
It went under the hammer at Hanson's Auctioneers salesroom in Bishton Hall, Staffordshire.
One of the animals to benefit is another Harry, an 11-month-old dog left in the branch's care.
A store volunteer first noticed the donated book as a possible first edition.
Rebecca Busby of the RSPCA Isle of Wight branch said the volunteer, who was an avid Harry Potter and book enthusiast, checked for all the well known markers and noticed it had them.
""She called me and I could hear her excitement as she said: 'I can't believe it we have a Harry Potter first edition... Please could you find somewhere to sell this, as we can't sell it in the shop.'""
The store called in Jim Spencer, a Harry Potter books expert based at Hansons Auctioneers.
""I am delighted it's raised thousands for such a great cause. As well as securing a strong investment, the buyer can be doubly happy in the knowledge money raised will help animals like Harry,"" Mr Spencer said.
Ms Busby said the cost of living crisis meant owners struggled to look after their pets and fewer people were adopting.
""We currently have 50 pets in our care - including dogs, cats and rabbits - and due to the cost of living crisis we, like many animal charities, are struggling.""
She adds: ""I'm sure Harry Potter will help his namesake, Harry the dog, find his magical home and enjoy an amazing new chapter in his life."""
https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-england-stoke-staffordshire-68306700	Rare Harry Potter first edition may fetch thousands at auction	"A rare Harry Potter book that was anonymously donated to a charity shop may fetch up to £10,000 at auction.
The first edition copy of The Philosopher's Stone was given to an RSPCA shop in the Isle of Wight.
It is now due to go under the hammer at Hanson's Auctioneers salesroom in Bishton Hall, Staffordshire.
Funds from the sale will go towards the charity's Isle of Wight branch, with a dog named Harry among the beneficiaries.
Rebecca Busby, from the branch, said: ""We are sure Harry will help his namesake, Harry the dog, find his magical home and enjoy an amazing new chapter in his life."" 
The 11 month-old cockapoo-type, had found himself in the care of the branch following a change in his owner's circumstances.
Books expert Jim Spencer, from Staffordshire, assessed the copy and found it to be in an ""exceptional"" condition, valuing it in the region of between £7,000 and £10,000.
He said it would be ""very difficult"" to find another copy of the book that has been so ""well-preserved"".
""The only minor flaws were a ""couple of lightly folded corners"" and ""the usual light browning"" to page edges, he added.
""This deserves to fly, especially for such a great cause,"" Mr Spencer said, referring to the sale on 26 February.
""I hope collectors are generous with their bids and help the RSPCA, who do an amazing job caring for animals on the Isle of Wight."" 
Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk"
https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-england-leicestershire-68270095	Armed police alerted to Harry Potter fan with wand	"Firearms officers attended a hotel following a report of a man carrying a large knife - but it turned out to be a Harry Potter fan with a wand.
The report was made to Leicestershire Police on Sunday morning.
The incident was recounted on a police Facebook page by a local police constable who also attended the hotel in Enderby.
He said no harm was caused to anyone and joked that there was ""no sign of Voldemort"".
People commenting on the post saw the funny side.
""Are you being sirius?!"" asked one, in a reference to Harry's godfather Sirius Black.
""Expecto Patrol-man!"" said another, as a play on words of ""Expecto Patronum"", the words of the powerful Patronus Charm.
Police have not said which hotel the incident happened at, but said it was a ""large hotel"" and the man had been seen inside near the lifts.
Follow BBC East Midlands on Facebook, on X, or on Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk."
https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-scotland-edinburgh-east-fife-67805425	'Harry Potter café' to reopen three years after Edinburgh's George IV Bridge fire	"An Edinburgh cafe where JK Rowling wrote parts of her Harry Potter books is set to reopen three years after a devastating fire.
The Elephant House cafe was one of several properties badly damaged in a blaze on George IV Bridge in Edinburgh in August 2021.
Its reopening has been delayed because the building's owner went into liquidation. 
Cafe owner David Taylor said he hoped to reopen by summer 2024.
He cannot proceed with the work until the structure of the central Edinburgh block has been made safe - something that has been hindered by the landlord going into liquidation shortly after the fire.
Mr Taylor told BBC Scotland the refurbishment would cost about £1m with work starting soon.
He said: ""I'm feeling unimaginable relief. If the liquidator is as good as their word then the renovations can happen quite quickly once the structural work has been completed.
""We are talking late spring early summer for its reopening.
""It has been a terrible few years and I could have walked away with the insurance money but I would never have done that as I want to see it thriving again.
""I would always stand by my cafe.""
Mr Taylor, who has owned the cafe for 28 years, has now opened a second Elephant House around the corner in Victoria Street selling Butterscotchbeer - a similar drink to the Butterbeer Harry Potter enjoys in JK Rowling's books.
The new cafe looks down into Victoria Street - considered by fans to be the inspiration for Rowling's Diagon Alley.
The table JK Rowling used to lean on to write part of her books was salvaged from the fire and restored. It is currently in the new Elephant House in Victoria Street, which opened earlier this week.
The table will be moved back to the original cafe in George IV Bridge when it reopens next year.
Mr Taylor has also launched The Elephant Cafe International franchise with Andrew McRae, owner of the Museum Context retail chain - the seller of officially licensed Harry Potter merchandise.
They are opening up a franchise in Manilla in February where JK Rowling's table will be for one month.
They are also looking at other franchises in Asia.
Mr McRae is joint owner of the new Elephant House in Victoria Street, which is just a few doors along from a branch of Museum Context.
Currently Mr Taylor has metal scaffolding holding up the ceiling of his cafe, which was put in as an emergency and temporary measure by City of Edinburgh Council.
It is believed the fire started in the Patisserie Valerie cafe - which also has a basement that runs underneath The Elephant House.
It is understood Patisserie Valerie will not reopen in the property.
The Elephant House was one of two used regularly by Rowling when she was writing the stories of the boy wizard in the mid-90s. "
https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-scotland-highlands-islands-67804969	Harry Potter train operator loses High Court door safety challenge	"The operator of a train service that featured in the Harry Potter films has lost a High Court challenge against a rail regulator over door safety.
West Coast Railways (WCR) challenged demands for central locking systems to be fitted to the carriage doors.
The owners of the Jacobite - which appeared as the Hogwarts Express in the boy wizard films - said implementing the new measures could cost £7m.
It operates on the iconic West Highland Line from Fort William to Mallaig.
WCR took legal action against the Office of Rail and Road (ORR) after it refused to exempt the company from rules banning the use of hinged doors without central locking. 
The company relies on the safety exemption to allow for the continued use of heritage rolling stock.
It said that the cost of adding locking systems to the traditional 1950s slam-door carriages would potentially wipe out about 10 years of profit.
WCR said it was ""disappointed"" by the High Court ruling and said safety was its ""top priority"".
A judge dismissed the operator's case and concluded that the ORR had taken a ""justifiable"" approach.
Mrs Justice Thornton said a feature of the Jacobite was the hinged doors that ""can be opened by anyone inside the train even when the train is moving"".
She said it was ""common sense"" that a central locking system was safer than one ""dependent on no more than an assumption by the guard that the stewards have locked the doors"".
The judge said the ORR had noted that there was no evidence of a WCR investigation or ""lessons learnt"" after a train left York with a door open in October 2020.
Or an occasion when a passenger overpowered a steward to open the door of a moving train in June 2022.
The ORR told the judge that it did not want heritage train operators to go out of business, but it wanted to ensure heritage trains ""meet minimum safety standards"" by introducing central locking. 
West Coast Railways supplied Warner Bros with the locomotive and heritage carriages used for the Hogwarts Express in the Harry Potter film series.
The Jacobite train makes two trips a day, from March to October, using some of the same carriages that were used for filming.
The WCR's legal challenge centred on an ORR exemption refusal in January and March. 
The company, whose trains run at speeds of up to 100 miles per hour, argued that its door procedures were as safe as a central locking mechanism, with train stewards operating them and warning signs for passengers.
WCR's commercial manager, James Shuttleworth, said: ""We have decades of experience of operating on the main line and safety has always been, and remains, our top priority.
""We will now reflect and consider options to enable us to continue running safe services enjoyed by so many visitors from the UK and around the world, upon which local businesses along our routes rely.
""We are committed to working with the ORR to find a long-term solution which safeguards the future of heritage services""
Welcoming the ruling, the ORR said it was committed to ""ensuring the safety of all passengers"".
A spokesperson said: ""Other charter heritage operators which use the mainline railway have made the necessary investment to install central door locking on 'hinged door' carriages.
""It remains open to the West Coast Railway Company Limited to do the same.
""Such converted carriages can both retain their heritage appeal yet also reflect minimum modern safety standards."""
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/ce9p8v85l0po	Harry Potter book found in Highland bookshop sells for £55,104	"A first edition Harry Potter book found in a shop's bargain bucket has sold for more than £55,000.
The hardback copy of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone - the first book in JK Rowling's stories about a boy wizard - was published in 1997.
The seller - a Scottish woman, who lives near Edinburgh but has not been named - found the book during a family caravan holiday in Wester Ross in the late 1990s.
Hansons Auctioneers said the book was one of 200 copies distributed to shops from its first-ever print run, with a recommended retail price of £10.
Books expert Jim Spencer said: “It’s a great result for a great find. 
""This was a genuine, honest first issue and a fantastically well-preserved example.""
He added: ""It was fresh to market and it deserved to go full steam like the Hogwart’s Express.""
The book sold for £55,104.
The seller, a 58-year-old retired manager, bought the book at a bookshop café at the end of a single-track road near Ullapool.
She recognised the author's name having previously read an interview with Rowling in The Scotsman newspaper. 
Rowling had still to become a household name at the time, according to Hansons.
Since her purchase, the retired manager has kept the copy in a cupboard under stairs at her home.
In Philosopher's Stone, Harry Potter sleeps in a cupboard under stairs in the house where he lives.
Hansons said the hardback was one of the rarest and most prized Potter books, and the ""holy grail"" for collectors.
The Harry Potter books are among the best-selling of all time, having sold more than 600 million copies worldwide.
They were turned into films, which starred Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter, and there are now plans for a TV series.
"
https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-scotland-highlands-islands-67573695	Harry Potter train operator wins extension to safety rule deadline	"The operators of steam train journeys on the Harry Potter railway line have won a slight reprieve in a legal wrangle over safety regulation.
West Coast Railways (WCR) has challenged demands for central locking systems to be fitted to carriage doors. 
WCR's Jacobite locomotive and its carriages appeared as the Hogwarts Express in the boy wizard films.
The company said a deadline it had been facing on Thursday over the rules had been extended into early next year.
A judgement on a judicial review of the locking system requirement is expected in January. 
WRC operates a number of steam railway journeys, including the Jacobite excursions on the West Highland Line from Fort William to Mallaig.
The company relies on safety exemptions granted by the Office of Rail and Road (ORR) that allow for the continued use of heritage rolling stock.
The latest exemption was due to expire on Thursday.
But the ORR has now been issued a further certificate allowing WCR to run its services until a judgment has been handed down or until 29 February 2024, whichever comes sooner.
WCR has welcomed the move, but said the future of its excursions - including next year's Jacobite journeys - remained in doubt.
Commercial manager James Shuttleworth said: ""We are pleased that the ORR have issued us a further exemption certificate so that we can continue operations at least until judgment on the review is handed down, with our existing but robust safety measures in place. 
""However, this remains a precarious position to be in, as our long experience and the value we bring to local and national communities hangs in the balance of the court's decision.""
He added: ""We continue to push for the continuance of the UK's railway heritage for future generations on the main line railway.""
The Jacobite crosses the Glenfinnan Viaduct, which became an attraction for a new generation of tourists after being featured in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. 
About 750 people per day travel to the end of the line at Mallaig every day in the peak season, with many more visitors travelling to the area to see the train go past."
