URL	Title	Content
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/ckkgvkyely9o	Deadpool & Wolverine beats box office record 	"Marvel’s Deadpool & Wolverine has had an impressive opening weekend in the US – becoming the eighth-biggest opening ever, and best of the year so far.
The third Deadpool film – starring Ryan Reynolds as Deadpool and Hugh Jackman as Wolverine - made $205m (£160m) at its domestic box office, according to The Hollywood Reporter.
It also made it the best ever opening for an R-rated film – smashing the $134m record set by the first Deadpool in 2016. The film also opened to $233m (£182m) internationally.
It's a stark contrast to last year's The Marvels which made just $47m (£38m) in its first weekend in the US, making it the Marvel Cinematic Universe's lowest opening.

On Instagram, Reynolds thanked fans for going out to see the film, calling the success ""kind of hard to process"".
The film sees Deadpool trying to escape his superhero past. But his peaceful existence unravels when the MCU's Time Variance Authority - the group entrusted to balance the dizzying multiverse timelines - finds itself out of control.
Its corporate stooge Mr Paradox, played by Succession's Matthew Macfadyen, tries to covertly recruit Deadpool to help safeguard the central ""sacred"" timeline of reality by sacrificing his world. Refusing, he drags a begrudging, living, Wolverine into his timeline in a bid to save the day.
Reviews from critics have been mixed, but many described the film as the shot in the arm that Marvel needs. The film is also jam-packed with Marvel cameos. 
The Guardian's three-star review said the film ""mocks the MCU back to life"", with Deadpool ""basically right"" in his saviour complex quip.
Variety praised Deadpool and Wolverine's ""misty-eyed"" fan service, as a ""welcome corrective"" to 15 years of MCU convolution, even if the special effects and action sequences don't always match 2018's sequel.
When asked about potential future spin-offs for the pair, Reynolds told the BBC: ""I love being able to do a movie that is in and of itself just a movie. Deadpool and Wolverine isn't a commercial for another movie. It's just not part of the DNA.""
Last week, Taylor Swift, who is friends with Reynolds and his wife Blake Lively, urged people to go to cinemas, saying Reynolds had done the ""best work of his life"".
The film with the year's previous biggest opening weekend, Pixar's Inside Out 2, continued its domination of the box office, as it passed $1.5bn (£1.1bn) worldwide."
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cw0yzk14dy7o	Deadpool & Wolverine: Wrexham property search spike over new Ryan Reynolds film	"There was a spike in searches for properties in Wrexham following the release of Ryan Reynolds’ new film, Deadpool & Wolverine.
Property website Rightmove said there was a 36% increase in people looking up properties in the north Wales city last week, coinciding with the film's release date.
Reynolds, who stars as Deadpool and also co-owns Wrexham FC football club, gave two of the club's players roles in the film.
Striker Paul Mullin appeared as Welshpool - a Welsh version of Deadpool with a Wales flag across his chest.
Fellow striker Ollie Palmer also made a cameo as a bartender in the background of one scene.
Deadpool & Wolverine, starring Reynolds and Hugh Jackman, was released in the UK on 25 July.
Canadian actor Reynolds and fellow Hollywood star Rob McElhenney bought Wrexham AFC in 2020, putting the city and the club on the world map.
Since then, Wrexham AFC has been promoted to League One - the club's first back-to-back promotion in its 159-year history.
The takeover of the football team and its subsequent promotions have been documented in the Disney+ show Welcome to Wrexham, which has been running for three series.
On Monday, Reynolds - who is regularly spotted watching Wrexham matches - shared a series of photos of himself next to Mullin on X, adding: ""You may have noticed one member of the Deadpool Corps was far deadlier than the rest. WELSHPOOL.""
Fans of both the film and the football club took to social media to share their excitement.
“Pretty cool that Ryan and Rob are trying their hardest to put Wales on the map!” said one fan.
Reviews from film critics have been mixed, but Deadpool & Wolverine had the eighth-biggest opening weekend ever and the best of the year so far."
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cx82r5wdz22o	Deadpool and Wolverine: Can Ryan Reynolds and Hugh Jackman save Marvel?	"""I'm the messiah… I'm Marvel Jesus!"" proclaims Ryan Reynolds' Deadpool in his third lead outing as the acerbic, X-rated, genre-satirising anti-hero, who returns to cinemas on Thursday for the first time since 2018.
It's a typically subversive line. But the sharpest jokes hold a grain of truth.
Disney's Marvel franchise is not short of superheroes, but it is in need of saving right now.
Traditionally, heavyweights like Spider-Man, Thor, Hulk or the Avengers ensemble could be relied on to save the day. But these aren't ordinary times for Marvel, following the studio’s much-discussed slump.
It’s a good thing, then, that Reynolds’ Deadpool has fully joined the fold, alongside Australian Hugh Jackman - who, thanks to the creative joys of the Marvel multiverse (parallel worlds of different realities), is able to reprise his iconic role as the late metal-clawed Wolverine.
A few years ago, even in the craziest timeline, a downturn in Marvel's fortunes seemed unthinkable. In 2019, Avengers: Endgame alone took £2.1bn - a high point for the studio’s cinematic universe, which has earned Hollywood almost £23bn since 2008 in an eye-watering gold rush over 33 films.
But last year its iron grip loosened. The confusingly named The Marvels opened to a franchise record low of £38m.
Audience fatigue appeared heavy against an avalanche of interconnected multiverse content - from traditional blockbusters to TV series released on streaming over the pandemic.
This created ""a muddled narrative that baffled viewers"", wrote Tatiana Siegel in a Variety feature headlined ""Crisis at Marvel"". She described Marvel mastermind Kevin Feige as spread too thin across projects, struggling to maintain standards and ready to wield the axe.
Disney CEO Bob Iger publicly acknowledged quantity had ""diluted"" the brand, promising to rein in the sequel-heavy culture and put stories first.
Enter Reynolds, who, at a press conference earlier this month, emphasised the film’s unique identity - bringing edge and self-deprecation to an increasingly stale universe. As a co-writer and producer, he said he feels ""immensely proud"" to make ""a different type of movie for the MCU"".
Speaking to the BBC, he says the messiah line reflected Deadpool’s enduring fortune to be ""in the right place at the right time"".
""Those lines were written before any larger analysis of storytelling trends in the media,"" he adds.
The film sees Deadpool trying to escape his superhero past. But his peaceful existence unravels when the MCU's Time Variance Authority - the group entrusted to balance the dizzying multiverse timelines - finds itself out of control. 
Its corporate stooge Mr Paradox, played by Succession's Matthew Macfadyen, tries to covertly recruit Deadpool to help safeguard the central ""sacred"" timeline of reality by sacrificing his world. Refusing, he drags a begrudging, living, Wolverine into his timeline in a bid to save the day.
When asked about potential future spin-offs for the pair, Reynolds insists he wants to steer clear of Marvel’s recent pitfalls. ""I love being able to do a movie that is in and of itself just a movie,"" he tells the BBC. ""Deadpool and Wolverine isn't a commercial for another movie. It's just not part of the DNA.""
Reynolds and Jackman have known each other for almost two decades, first working together in 2008 for X-Men Origins: Wolverine, which gave Reynolds his superhero start. Their friendship is clear.
""You're so lucky because a lot of people don't know how jealous Wolverine can be,"" jokes Jackman. “If you mention anyone else, I will kill them. Particularly if it's another Australian superhero.""
""You know, his claws come out..."" jibes Reynolds.
""So Thor is out!"" adds director Shawn Levy, in reference to Australian Chris Hemsworth.
The exchange mirrors how Reynolds sees their real-world relationship reflected on screen. The Canadian star says it was ""such a treat to write dialogue"" for the film because it felt like ""straddling this line - myself and Hugh speaking to each other as friends who've... been through a lot together.
""Hugh and I are very outwardly jokey, but in real life our conversations are intense and emotional and about life and all kinds of stuff.""
Both given similar powers as victims of experimentation by the US government’s Weapon X project, Deadpool and Wolverine share a love-hate relationship.
First appearing as adversaries in the 1980s, by 1999 they were firm ""frenemies"" in the comics. In one issue, they bonded over their mutual tortures at the hands of the Weapon X programme and even shared a beer. ""This was the start of an awkward friendship,"" wrote Nerdist’s Eric Diaz.
In 2019, Disney acquired 20th Century Fox - making Deadpool and Wolverine official members of the MCU.
The film realises an ambition years in the making. Jackman insists he ""really did mean it"" when he declared himself ""done"" with Wolverine after 2017’s critically-acclaimed Logan, which saw the superhero meet his end.
But weeks after filming wrapped in 2016, he saw the first Deadpool - offering a different twist on the genre in its anarchistic comedy - and regretted his decision.
""For four or five years, all I could see were those characters together,"" he explains, imagining classic buddy comedy/drama pairings like 48 Hours or The Odd Couple.
Eventually, it became an itch he had to scratch. ""I can tell you the date. August 14 2022. I was driving and it came to me like that - I wanted to do [Wolverine] again... with Ryan playing Deadpool.""
Pulling over, he rang Reynolds to plead his case. The timing was perfect, because the actor was hours away from pitching a third Deadpool film to Marvel with Levy.
Levy says Jackman's arrival was key to giving the third film its ""why"" and its ""heart"".
For Reynolds' Deadpool, this means plenty of X-rated jokes at Disney's expense. For Jackman, it is a golden opportunity to explore new depths of his much-loved Wolverine.
""There's parts of the character that I'd always pitched in different versions and tried to get across. It was something that I've been scratching at. And these guys hit it.""
Jackman, 55, says his renewed enthusiasm may come from the perspective age brings, after years on stage and a starring role in screen musical The Greatest Showman.
""When you come back because you desperately want to, and particularly in this form, it felt incredibly fresh.
""There's one monologue I get which has more countable words than I’ve [previously] used in an entire movie,"" he explains.
The final trailer sent fans into meltdown, with the shock appearance of Dafne Keen returning as an older version of Wolverine's daughter, Laura, from his famous Logan farewell.
It is the epitome of fan service. But willpower alone does not make a blockbuster capable of potentially reviving Marvel’s fortunes. That instead relies on authentic, cohesive storytelling.
Deadpool and Wolverine is the only Disney-backed MCU release this year (thanks to delays from the writers’ strikes), but this may not be a bad thing. 
Reviews from critics have been mixed, but many have described the film as the shot in the arm that Marvel needs.
The Guardian's three-star review said the film ""mocks the MCU back to life"", with Deadpool ""basically right"" in his saviour complex quip.
Variety praised Deadpool and Wolverine's ""misty-eyed"" fan-service as a ""welcome corrective"" to 15 years of MCU convolution, even if the special effects and action sequences don't always match 2018's sequel. ""The entire genre could use a shake-up, and this jester-like character is just the guy to do it,"" added Peter Debruge.
However, the Independent's two-star review could not look past the ""tedious and annoying corporate merger of a film"".
The Hollywood Reporter said the film is on course for a massive $165m (£127m) opening weekend in the US, which would mark the biggest R-rated opening of all time.
Can it save the MCU? Not on its own - multiverse content problems run deep. But it's certainly energised it and is, whisper it, fun - whichever timeline you're in."
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cmm2r2qg279o	Ryan Reynolds reacts to lifesize Deadpool and Wolverine cake	"A baker's video of her creating a lifesize cake of Deadpool and Wolverine has been shared on social media by Ryan Reynolds.
The Canadian actor, who plays Deadpool, reposted Lara Mason's video of her making the sculpture to his Instagram stories, writing: ""Wha?! How?!"" 
Walsall baker Mrs Mason took more than 120 hours to create the cake, depicting the Marvel superhero characters recreating the famous Dirty Dancing lift.
Mrs Mason's videos of her making the edible creation have been viewed by almost 6m people.
The cake is more than 3m (10ft) tall and is made from almost 300kg (661lbs) of ingredients.
Mrs Mason, 38, shares videos of her creations on TikTok and Facebook, where she saw her viewers tagging Ryan Reynolds in the comments.
She was stunned to see a comment on Monday saying the Deadpool actor himself had shared her video on Instagram.
""It was unbelievable,"" she told the BBC.  
Mrs Mason has made cakes for 13 years, having crafted similar sculptures of an array of different celebrities, fictional characters, and animals, from Harry Styles and Ed Sheeran to Queen Elizabeth II and Spiderman.
Her latest sculpture is her tallest yet, beating her previous record of Taylor Swift lifting the Superbowl trophy, which she completed in February.
The baker made the cake to coincide with the release of the superhero film Deadpool & Wolverine on Thursday.
""This is probably one of the most complicated cake designs I've ever made,"" she said.
""I really like sculpting people, so this was a really fun challenge for me.""
The cakes are made from leftover sponges from customer orders, so no cake goes to waste.
They are then covered in chocolate ganache and modelling chocolate, before an airbrush pen is used to sculpt the characters. 
Mrs Mason and her husband then had to winch the Deadpool cake on top of the Wolverine cake to recreate the Dirty Dancing pose.
""That was the super complicated part,"" she said.
""We had to lift the Deadpool sculpture with a winch. Thankfully, this part went really well and we lifted him almost up to the ceiling.
""Then we could slide the Wolverine cake in underneath and wiggle it on.
""After weeks and weeks of trying to figure out how on earth we'd be able to do this, weeks of putting the cake together, it happened.
""I've never been more proud of a cake.""
Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk"
https://www.bbc.com/culture/article/20240723-deadpool-and-wolverine-review-the-action-is-a-slog	Deadpool and Wolverine review: The action is 'a slog'	"Despite a stellar media campaign, the odd-couple buddy team of Ryan Reynolds and Hugh Jackman is occasionally wry and entertaining, but the action is ""a slog"".
Deadpool and Wolverine – which might more accurately have been called Deadpool and His Sidekick Wolverine – is sometimes very funny, at times a bit flat, and so filled with callbacks to other X-Men and Marvel movies that your head might explode, not in a good way.
Bringing together Ryan Reynolds' wise-cracking, motor-mouthed Deadpool and Hugh Jackman's fierce, metal-claw-fisted Wolverine, the movie fulfils the wishes of fans primed to love the simple fact that this long-teased film even exists. The clashing personalities of the satiric Deadpool and of Wolverine, the most dramatically serious of the X-Men, neatly create an odd-couple buddy team.
But here Deadpool, the irreverent superhero who recognises how ridiculous superheroes are, enters the self-serious Marvel Cinematic Universe, or MCU, with its head-spinning timelines and multiverses. That change defeats the point of Deadpool.
The Deadpool character has always been, and continues to be, meta. Winking at the audience and breaking the fourth wall is his thing. There's also his damaged face, which he once described as looking like ""pepperoni flatbread"", his unprintable language and his self-healing powers, but mostly he's about winking at the camera.
No one ever winks in the MCU. And let's be honest: the multiverse can be tiresome. Deadpool (2016) and its sequel never sent anyone flying to a search engine for help sorting out its timelines and references, which Deadpool and Wolverine ultimately does.    
Reynolds almost single-handedly keeps this movie going, though, because Deadpool's meta comedy never lets up. It's there from the opening sequence when he sets out to prove that Wolverine, who definitely died and was buried in Logan (2017), is not really dead. Deadpool ends up dancing on his grave to 'N Sync's Bye Bye Bye, one of many pop songs that set a buoyant tone throughout. That is just the kind of goofy scene that made the earlier Deadpool movies breezy fun.
Deadpool also tells the audience, in the first of way too many unexplained references, that he didn't know if he'd get another movie after Disney bought Fox, kicking off a running joke. In short: the X-Men franchise, which included the Wolverine and Deadpool movies, belonged to 20th Century Fox. The Marvel Cinematic Universe is Disney. When Disney bought Fox in 2019, it created some Hollywood-studio version of a blended family and here we are.
That explains, as Deadpool doesn't, why he later points to Wolverine and tells confused bystanders, ""Fox killed him. Disney brought him back. They're going to make him do this 'til he's 90."" And it explains why Deadpool and Wolverine works much better for viewers already in the know and predisposed to like it.  Otherwise, good luck.
It takes a while for Wolverine to appear. In his non-heroic guise as Wade Wilson, Deadpool is now selling used cars, even though his dream job is becoming an Avenger. His life and the movie change when he is pulled in by the Time Variance Authority, the organisation that controls various timelines and alternate realties in the MCU. Matthew Macfadyen has an easy job playing Paradox, a smarmy TVA executive who informs Deadpool that his world's timeline is slowly dying and he wants his help wiping it out fast. For convoluted reasons, Deadpool instead recruits Wolverine to help him save his world.
The TVA can be sinister and confusing, but it is a convenient way to bring people back from the dead. Wolverine in the new film is still Logan, but a different iteration from a timeline we haven't seen before. His yellow and blue costume instantly makes him look sillier than usual and is a good match for Deadpool's tone. But while Jackman is always charismatic, this alternate Wolverine's personality rarely goes beyond snarling at Deadpool in f-bombing language, creating an unbalanced buddy pairing.  
Together they land in a desert landscape that Deadpool rightly describes as Mad Max-y. Emma Corrin is effectively creepy as Cassandra Nova, who lords it over the place, a purgatory called The Void where the discarded are sent to rot. Wolverine calls her ""the bald chick"" because she is Charles Xavier's (Patrick Stewart in the X-Men films) evil twin and has a matching shaved head. She also has the icky habit of pushing her fingers inside someone's face to feel their thoughts.
This long, sometimes flagging sequence includes the most callbacks to other movies. Some of the many cameo appearances are surprises. Others, including Jennifer Garner as Elektra, were already known. Channing Tatum appears and whether you get that joke or not, he is funny every time he opens his mouth. There are alternate Deadpools, including Reynolds in a second role where you actually get to see his face. That's a relief among so many stunt doubles lurking behind masks.
But the action, which takes over much of the movie, is a slog. The director, Shawn Levy, is best known for the Night at the Museum franchise, and action is not his strength. There are lots of scenes in which crowds of people run at each other, with Deadpool's swords and Wolverine's claws skewering their enemies and sometimes each other. The fights are about as sophisticated as watching kids in a playground, and they rely heavily on slow motion, as if that will instantly create tension.
Reynolds and Jackman have masterfully created a media campaign that is sometimes funnier than the film, including an ad in which their red and yellow costumes are compared to bottles of ketchup and mustard. ""You can't unsee it,"" the tagline reads. At its sporadic best, Deadpool and Wolverine is that wry and entertaining. Overall it is middling, but sure to make enough money to keep ketchup and mustard coming back well into their 90s.
★★★☆☆
If you liked this story, sign up for The Essential List newsletter – a handpicked selection of features, videos and can't-miss news, delivered to your inbox twice a week.
For more Culture stories from the BBC, follow us on Facebook, X and Instagram."
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cd1xdqxx9z5o	Deadpool & Wolverine star Ryan Reynolds auctions gym equipment for Wrexham charity	"Hollywood star Ryan Reynolds has donated gym equipment used during the production of Deadpool & Wolverine to a Welsh charity.
The proceeds raised from the auction of several items - including Deadpool-themed weights benches, pulling machines and weights sets - will be given to Your Space.
“Not all heroes lift weights, but they sure can pump iron for a good cause,” Reynolds, who plays Deadpool, told the auction host Charitybuzz.
“We're auctioning off the very gym equipment that had me begging for mercy while training for Deadpool & Wolverine,"" he added.
""This gear isn't just drenched in my sweat—I've also marked my territory by signing these pain machines.”
Your Space is a Wrexham-based charity that provides support to children with autism and their families across Wrexham, Flintshire, Denbighshire, Shropshire and Powys.
Wrexham AFC striker Paul Mullin became the patron of the charity after his son was diagnosed with autism in 2023.
“Now that I can finally deflate my muscles, all proceeds will go to the phenomenally fit footballer Paul Mullin's Your Space charity,” said Reynolds.
Some of the items listed have already attracted bids of more than $2,000 (£1,554).
A spokesperson for Your Space said they were ""so excited and grateful"". 
Reynolds is the co-owner of Wrexham AFC, having bought the club alongside fellow Hollywood star Rob McElhenny in 2020.
Since then the team has been promoted to League One - the club's first back-to-back promotion in its 159-year history.
Deadpool & Wolverine, which Reynolds stars in alongside Hugh Jackman, opened in cinemas worldwide on Thursday.
It follows Reynolds' Deadpool and Jackman's Wolverine as they team up to fight a common enemy."
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c1rw29gydqno	Deadpool and Wolverine: Why do some people prefer antiheroes to superheroes?	"“I may be super but I’m no hero.”
In Deadpool’s own words, he is “just a bad guy who gets paid"" to mess with ""worse guys”.
Ryan Reynolds’s character in Deadpool and Wolverine - the third edition of the Marvel series released this week - is far from the only antihero to have won over fans in recent years.
They are typically morally ambiguous characters that are neither a superhero nor a villain.
Take Wanda Maximoff (Scarlet Witch), who will do everything she can to create a family, including holding an entire community hostage in the 2021 show WandaVision.
And later this year, the villain-turned-antihero film Venom will return to the big screen a third time, as a journalist who tries to protect the innocent at all costs.
Deadpool, aka Wade Wilson, gains immortality after joining an experiment programme to cure his cancer, but things go wrong and he is left to die, leading him on a revenge-driven quest to kill his betrayers.
But what is it about these characters of murder and mayhem that connect with some people more than superheroes do?
According to 26-year-old comics fan Chelsea-Lee Nolan from Kent, they are simply “more human”.
“Nobody is wholly good or wholly evil, so the idea of an antihero is quite nice,” she says.
It is in these grey areas that Ms Nolan can see “elements” of herself.
“I’m not overly perfect and I don’t aim to be,"" she adds. “The idea of a hero who makes no mistakes is unrelatable.""
For writer and performer Reece Connolly, 30, who lives in London, antiheroes are simply more realistic.
“They move towards a moral right, but they make mistakes, they have regrets, bad habits and quirks of character,” Mr Connolly explains.
In the comic book Deadpool (2008), Issue 45, a group of trafficked women call him a “good man” after he rescues them, but the mercenary quickly rejects it, saying: “Well… okay, yeah - maybe sometimes parts of me are good but there are, like other parts of me that’re, umm…”
His reluctance to be called “good” is a recognition of his flaws.
The “Merc with a Mouth”, as Deadpool calls himself, is loud, murderous and maddening - everything a superhero isn’t.
Other antiheroes share similar traits. Loki, played by Tom Hiddleston, is a villain but has gradually become someone who tries to do the right thing, albeit with the trickster’s mischief thrown in.
The “dark side” that antiheroes embrace plays a huge role in their appeal, according to Dara Greenwood, of Vassar College in New York, who has spent time studying such characters.
“[They] give us the imaginative opportunity to lean into the ‘dark side’ of human behaviour in a way that is safe from repercussion or reproach,” the associate professor of psychological science says.
That might partly support the affective disposition theory - which suggests that entertainment is enjoyed more when a character that audiences like succeeds and a disliked character fails.
A defining part of Deadpool is his humour. He is known for his ability “to drop mad one-liner science”, as he calls it, wisecracks and innuendos - usually at the most inappropriate times.
Prof Greenwood says that when paired with humour, violence can come across as playful instead of toxic, which “desensitises us” to its brutality.
Many superheroes see their powers as a calling to do good - the likes of Spider-Man continue as fan favourites, showing resilience in the face of suffering and continuing to save, not harm people.
But Deadpool knows he is a fictional character who exists for the pleasure of others, and constantly breaks the fourth wall to talk to readers and viewers. A 2019 study shows that this rapport gives us the same feelings of attachment and intimacy we would get with a personal relationship.
Ms Nolan says it makes her feel “involved”, while Mr Connolly likens it to “a conversation, or a secret or in-joke we're being let in on"".
To him, antiheroes like Deadpool are “heroes with all the interesting bits left in""
""The mess, the weirdness, the flaws,"" he says."
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cnk4510vp75o	Deadpool: 2015 game sells for £300 after film hype	"A nine-year-old PlayStation 4 video game has skyrocketed in price following the release of the long-anticipated film Deadpool & Wolverine last week.
Fans wanting to get their hands on the 2015 game Deadpool have paid as much as £116 on eBay - with an unopened copy in top condition selling for £330 last week.
It is no longer available for digital download, meaning gamers must seek out physical copies if they want to play it.
The renewed love for the game seems to be a direct result of the popularity of the new film, which made over $444m (£345m) on its opening weekend.
Deadpool & Wolverine, which stars Ryan Reynolds and Hugh Jackman as the titular characters, has had the sixth-biggest box office opening ever.
The game first launched in 2013 for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, but it is the 2015 re-release that is becoming difficult to find without paying high prices.
The game was not well-received by critics, though it was not panned either - with review aggregator Metacritic giving it an average score of 60 out of 100.
According to PriceCharting, which tracks media sales online, the PS4 game - which originally retailed for £49.99 - could have been picked up for just £9 in May 2018 when the second Deadpool movie came out.
But the hype over the third instalment of the franchise, and the popularity of its stars Reynolds and Jackman, has seen the price of the game steadily inflate since filming began in May 2023.
And its July 2024 release has seen the game's price shoot up even further to a record high.
Deadpool & Wolverine has had the sixth-biggest opening weekend ever in the US, according to The Hollywood Reporter.
It made $211m at the domestic box office, and opened with $233m internationally.
On Instagram, Reynolds thanked fans for going out to see the film, calling the success ""kind of hard to process"".
The film is jam-packed with Marvel cameos, and also features an unlikely appearance from Wrexham AFC striker Paul Mullin.
Reynolds and fellow Hollywood actor Rob McElhenney bought the Welsh football club in 2020 and have seen the team promoted to League One.
The takeover and subsequent success was documented in the TV series Welcome to Wrexham."
https://www.bbc.com/culture/article/20240704-can-deadpool-wolverine-really-save-marvel	Can Deadpool & Wolverine really save Marvel?	"The once invincible superhero universe has seemed increasingly vulnerable recently. Its atypically foul-mouthed and adult new entry is predicted to be huge – even as it mocks its own brand.
Lewd, rude and dangerous to know, Ryan Reynolds' Deadpool is no cog in the Disney machine. That's what the cast and crew of the first R-rated superhero adventure in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) would have us believe. It's a message that may alienate some punters, and be gratefully received by others, but while some of Marvel's recent big and small screen offerings have flopped, Shawn Levy's Deadpool & Wolverine – which imports two beloved mutants from the 21st Century Fox X-Men film series – could be the biggest hit of the summer. Current projections suggest it will have a $160m+ opening in the US (ie even bigger than the recent opening for Inside Out 2, which leads 2024 so far).
But could there be hidden costs for Marvel Studios boss, Kevin Feige, in welcoming Reynolds' anarchic anti-hero into the fold? The movie's co-writers, Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick, worked on the first two Deadpool movies and were responsible for many of the most outrageous gags; initially sidelined by the Disney powers that be, the pair managed to get themselves re-hired, in 2022.
The script they and Reynolds have put together apparently makes Feige part of the story. We already know, from the trailers, that Deadpool will quip that cocaine is ""the only thing Feige said was off limits!"" Such comments potentially undermine the authority of a hands-on producer who was once seen as untouchable and, for a certain breed of comic-book fan, god-like. Back when Feige was overseeing the MCU's hot streak, Fox, Sony and Warner Bros were desperate to ape his success. Now Feige is the one seemingly piggy-backing on other people's ideas and the butt of wisecracks that mock everything about the family-friendly multiverse he's created so far. 
Meanwhile, there's a tie-in between the new film and Aviation American gin, which Reynolds used to have a stake in (and still has financial links with). A series of limited-edition bottles for the new film show Deadpool welcoming everyone to the ""Ginematic Universe"". A rep from Disney declared that fans would now have a ""chance to engage with the world of Deadpool in a whole new way"". We're not in the milk and cookies zone, anymore.
True, Disney's MCU has never been 100% squeaky clean. Remember the polyamorous dolphins in Thor: Love and Thunder; the f-bomb in Guardians of the Galaxy 3 and the umpteen dirty jokes in WandaVision? And Deadpool, himself, isn't 100% naughty. He has a cuddly and responsible side; among other things, he risks his life to save vulnerable kids. Still, the character's amoral vulgarity will certainly cause some Mouse House loyalists to spit out their popcorn.
That Deadpool & Wolverine is the only MCU offering of the year could be read as proof that Disney has capitulated, entirely, to Deadpool/Reynolds' louche brand of snark. And, by ridiculing their own brand, Marvel are arguably creating problems for future MCU endeavours. We get it: adult material and self-mockery are all the rage when it comes to superheroes these days. As proof, see the surprise endurance of Sony's Venom franchise and the high ratings of Prime Video show The Boys. But where does that leave the rest of Disney's multiverse? 
According to Variety's London Bureau Chief, Alex Ritman, there's still a huge appetite for what one might call more typical MCU adventures. Ritman recently wrote a piece on Thunderbolts*, which is set to be the last entry of Marvel's so-called Phase Five that began inauspiciously with Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania in early 2023. He notes that the piece received ""a lot of interest, online. I don't think the success of Deadpool will have a detrimental effect on the other MCU movies planned for 2025/2026"". 
Ritman says Disney know what they're doing. ""I've just got back from CineEurope [an annual industry convention, held in Barcelona]. We were shown footage from the movie and watched a message from Reynolds. There was so much [ribbing] of Disney, such an emphasis on the fact that Deadpool isn't your standard Disney film. But the Disney execs are clever folk. They were playing into the mickey-taking. They totally embraced it.""
According to author and Marvel comic-book fan, Kim Newman, ""Deadpool has always allowed Marvel to poke fun at itself."" Deadpool first appeared, in the comics, in 1990. ""In every iteration of the character, it's like Marvel are saying to readers, 'You think our characters are kind of assholes? Here's a character who agrees!'"" 
Newman views the goofy ""Merc [mercenary] with a mouth"" as an antidote to all things over-earnest: ""He's had a hard life. After all, he's a cancer survivor. But he's also a mass-murderer. If that's who you want as your hero, because you're fed up with Captain America, that probably says something bad, right? However, it's understandably bad, because Captain America is kind of insufferable.""
Essentially, via Deadpool, Reynolds is having fun with one of the comic book world's most intriguing bad boys – which Newman completely applauds. What Newman doesn't appreciate are the invidious comparisons being made between Deadpool & Wolverine and more recent MCU outings, such as The Marvels. Newman actually enjoyed last year's flop, which, as he puts it, ""takes Brie Larson's rather humourless character and teams her up with Iman Vellani's Kamala Khan/Ms Marvel, someone who thinks Captain Marvel is a) great but b) also funny. I thought that dynamic really worked"". It annoys Newman that the very comic-book fans who rejected Nia DaCosta's epic are now swooning over the idea of a grim and grizzled Wolverine being baited by cheeky Deadpool. ""I suspect Deadpool & Wolverine is basically The Marvels, but with two very popular blokes.""
For Daily Telegraph critic Tim Robey, the appeal of Shawn Levy's new movie boils down to ""boys fighting""– as he says, ""lads want to see Deadpool and Wolverine beat each other up.""
But is there a more romantic side to the duo's relationship? Deadpool is famously pansexual in the comics, and Reynolds, right from the start, has said he wanted to honour that aspect of the character. In the marketing campaign of Deadpool & Wolverine, posters cast the two leads as touchy-feely lovers, a la Beauty and the Beast. 
Writer Ryan Gilbey – whose book on queer cinema, It Used to Be Witches, is published next year – is actively irritated by such tactics. ""These flirtations hint at more than a bromance, yet don't get beyond the level of schoolyard sniggering,"" he says. ""Are these characters going to have sex or aren't they? If that's not a realistic possibility, and there's nothing here to spook audiences when the film is shown in countries hostile to LGBTQ+ rights, then it all feels hollow and opportunistic.""
Gilbey is unmoved by the scenes in Deadpool 2, where our hero can't keep his hands off his pal, Colossus. ""Surely audiences aren't stupid enough to fall for the 'Deadpool is pansexual' lie? The first film was entirely heterosexual, save for a cartoon end credits sequence of him having sex with a cartoon unicorn. How much longer can the character go on pretending to be sexually omnivorous before he has to put his money where his mouth is?""
Newman, by contrast, thinks it's entirely possible the new film will offer surprises. ""In the comics, there's an alternate universe Wolverine who's gay. And if any popular superheroes could get away with it, it's Wolverine and Deadpool. James Bond hinted he'd had gay sex, in Skyfall, and no one made a fuss. Let's see."" 
It's undeniable that blockbusters with big international markets traditionally limit themselves vis a vis LGBTQ+ representation (or make it so that controversial scenes can be easily cut). That said, it's worth pointing out that two queer characters set to re-appear in the new movie – Deadpool's surly ally Negasonic Teenage Warhead and Negasonic's smiley mutant girlfriend Yukio – have already broken the mould. In Deadpool 2, the pair (who both have qualities beyond their queerness) sit around drinking from mugs that say, ""I'm with her"". No one could blink and miss the passion and sweetness between them and the audience response was so positive that it's unlikely Reynolds, Reese or Wernick would dare to mess with the chemistry (if they do, fans might not be happy). 
Ritman, for his part, is just excited about the return of Rob Delaney's under-gifted everyman, Peter, who, in Deadpool 2, became part of Deadpool's band of desperados because he ""saw the ad and thought it sounded like fun"". ""I love it that Peter's made it into the new movie,"" says Ritman. ""Peter, with his dad bod and his diabetes!""
Robey, whose book Box Office Poison (Hollywood's Story In a Century of Flops) is published later this year, is keen for Deadpool & Wolverine to do well, simply because ""the industry is in the doldrums and we need hits to ensure that films with a medium budget can get made"". He also feels the resistance to many of Marvel's Phase Five offerings is part of a wider trend. ""The action movies that used to be the studios' bread and butter can no longer be relied upon. We saw that with [the underperformance] of Fast X [Fast and Furious 10] and Mission Impossible 7 [Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning Part One]. Since Covid, audiences will only go to the cinema for special occasions and they can sniff out slightly weaker films."" Warner's R-rated Furiosa: A Mad Max Saga lost money, argues Robey, ""because the film-makers didn't know their audience"".
Right now, after a terrible year all round in 2023, Disney are proving they know their audience again, and making a fortune thanks to the success of Pixar's Inside Out 2. ""Everyone's delighted by this record-breaking, joyous, warm-hearted movie,"" enthuses Ritman. ""It's being described as the saviour of the year. And here comes Deadpool & Wolverine, the other side of the coin, that could well be the saviour of super-hero films."" 
Both sequels will eventually be streamed on Disney+. Inside Out 2 has already joined the billion-dollar club, Deadpool & Wolverine is likely to follow suit. Disney, basically, has all the bases covered. As Newman says, with the biggest of grins, ""In Disneyland, if you're fed up with princesses, they'll sell you a Disney villainess. Instead of Snow White, buy the Wicked Queen! That's how you get suckered in. Whatever choice you make, you're still part of that world.""
Deadpool & Wolverine is released in US and UK cinemas on 25 July.
--
If you liked this story, sign up for The Essential List newsletter – a handpicked selection of features, videos and can't-miss news, delivered to your inbox twice a week.
For more Culture stories from the BBC, follow us on Facebook, X and Instagram."
